# Khoa Lê


# Recent preprints:
<!-- PREPRINT-LIST:START --><details><summary>Khoa Lê (2022) - <a href=http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.15550v3>Maximal inequalities and weighted BMO processes</a></summary>  <p>  For a general adapted integrable right-continuous with left limits &lpar;RCLL&rpar; process $abstractlpar;X_t&rpar;_{t\in[0,\tau]}$ taking values in a metric space $abstractlpar;\mathcal E,d&rpar;$, we show &lpar;among other things&rpar; that for every $m\in&lpar;1,\infty&rpar;$
  $
  \frac{m-1}{2m-1}\|\sup_{t\in[0,\tau]}\mathbb{E}&lpar;d&lpar;X_{t-},X_\tau&rpar;|\mathcal F_t&rpar;\|_m\le \|\sup_{t\in[0,\tau]}d&lpar;X_0,X_t&rpar;\|_m\le c\frac{m^2}{m-1} \|\sup_{t\in[0,\tau]}\mathbb{E}&lpar;d&lpar;X_{t-},X_\tau&rpar;|\mathcal F_t&rpar;\|_m
  $
  with a universal constant $c$. This is a probabilistic version of Fefferman--Stein estimate for the sharp maximal functions. While the former inequality is derived easily from Doob&#39;s martingale inequality, the later inequality is a consequence of John--Nirenberg inequalities for weighted BMO processes, which are obtained in this note. We explain how John--Nirenberg inequalities can be utilized to obtain inequalities for martingales, both old and new alike in a unified way.</p></details><details><summary>Khoa Lê (2022) - <a href=http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.15736v2>Quantitative John--Nirenberg inequality for stochastic processes of bounded mean oscillation</a></summary>  <p>  Stroock and Varadhan in 1997 and Geiss in 2005 independently introduced stochastic processes with bounded mean oscillation &lpar;BMO&rpar; and established their exponential integrability with some unspecified exponential constant. This result is an analogue of the John--Nirenberg inequality for functions of bounded mean oscillation. In this work, we quantify the size of the exponential constant by the modulus of mean oscillation. Some new applications of BMO processes in rough stochastic differential equations, numerical approximations and regularization by noise are discussed.</p></details><details><summary>Martin Hairer, Khoa Lê, Tommaso Rosati (2022) - <a href=http://arxiv.org/abs/2201.08426v1>The Allen-Cahn equation with generic initial datum</a></summary>  <p>  We consider the Allen-Cahn equation $\partial_t u- \Delta u=u-u^3$ with a rapidly mixing Gaussian field as initial condition. We show that provided that the amplitude of the initial condition is not too large, the equation generates fronts described by nodal sets of the Bargmann-Fock Gaussian field, which then evolve according to mean curvature flow.</p></details><details><summary>Khoa Lê, Chengcheng Ling (2021) - <a href=http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.01343v5>Taming singular stochastic differential equations: A numerical method</a></summary>  <p>  We consider a generic and explicit tamed Euler--Maruyama scheme for multidimensional time-inhomogeneous stochastic differential equations with multiplicative Brownian noise. The diffusion coefficient is uniformly elliptic, H\&quot;older continuous and weakly differentiable in the spatial variables while the drift satisfies the Ladyzhenskaya--Prodi--Serrin condition, as considered by Krylov and R\&quot;ockner &lpar;2005&rpar;. In the discrete scheme, the drift is tamed by replacing it by an approximation. A strong rate of convergence of the scheme is provided in terms of the approximation error of the drift in a suitable and possibly very weak topology. A few examples of approximating drifts are discussed in detail. The parameters of the approximating drifts can vary and be fine-tuned to achieve the standard 1/2-strong convergence rate with a logarithmic factor. The result is then applied to provide numerical solutions for stochastic transport equations with singular vector fields satisfying the aforementioned condition.</p></details><details><summary>Peter K. Friz, Antoine Hocquet, Khoa Lê (2021) - <a href=http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.10340v3>Rough stochastic differential equations</a></summary>  <p>  We build a hybrid theory of rough stochastic analysis which seamlessly combines the advantages of both It\^o&#39;s stochastic and Lyons&#39; rough differential equations. This gives a direct and intrinsic understanding of multidimensional diffusion with Brownian noise $abstractlpar;B,\tilde B&rpar;$ $
  dY_t&lpar;\omega&rpar;=b&lpar;\omega,t,Y_t&lpar;\omega&rpar;&rpar;dt+\sigma&lpar;\omega,t,Y_t&lpar;\omega&rpar;&rpar;dB_t&lpar;\omega&rpar;+f&lpar;{\omega,t},Y_t&lpar;\omega&rpar;&rpar;d\tilde B_t \,,
  $ in the annealed form, when conditioned on its environmental noise $\tilde B$. This situation arises naturally e.g. in filtering theory, for Feynman--Kac representations of solutions to stochastic partial differential equations, in Lions--Souganidis&#39; theory of pathwise stochastic control, and for McKean--Vlasov stochastic differential equations with common noise. In fact, we establish well-posedness of rough stochastic differential equations, with $\tilde B$ replaced by a genuine rough path. As consequence, the `annealed&#39; process $Y$ is a locally Lipschitz function of its environmental noise in rough path metrics. There is also interest in taking $\tilde B=\tilde B^H$, a fractional Brownian motion which fits our theory for $H&gt;1/3$. Our assumptions for $b,\sigma$ agree with those from It\^o theory, those for $f$ with rough paths theory, including an extension of Davie&#39;s critical regularity result for deterministic rough differential equations. A major role in our analysis is played by a new scale of stochastic controlled rough paths spaces, related to a $abstractlpar;L^m,L^n&rpar;$-variant of stochastic sewing.</p></details><!-- PREPRINT-LIST:END -->

<!-- # Recent published articles: -->
